Class 2a - HTML
########################


Goals
*********

* Understand the purpose and history of HTML 5.

* Become comfortable doing basic editing HTML 5.

* Learn to create a fork of a repository and make changes to your copy.

* Start your own web page.


Readings
*********

* |HTML 5 - Wikipedia|

* |HTML Intro - W3| 


Extra Credit
*************

|HTML 5 - edX|

Recommended if you intend to do your final project in HTML.


Videos
*******

.. include:: video_refs/html5_intro.txt


Assignment
************

|Assignment| 

Follow the GitHub flow to complete this assignment. After you fork the repository, you can complete the assignment through the browser, or through GitHub Desktop and Atom (or another text editor).

#. Make a fork of |Get Started HMTL Repo| in your own GitHub account.

#. Create a new branch to edit your repository.

#. In your new repository, edit the ``index.html`` file.

#. Give the page a title.

#. In the two ``article`` elements, add something about yourself, with a title and description.

#. In the first ``aside``, add a picture and description.
   
#. In the second ``aside``, add your favorite quotation.

#. Add an ``id`` attribute to each ``article`` element.

#. In the ``nav`` element, change the text of the link to match the article titles, and add links to each ID.

   For information on adding links to IDs, see |HMTL Links|.

#. Save and commit the file to your branch.

#. Create a pull request for the branch.

#. Tag ``@MarkHoeber`` in the branch.

#. After I give a thumbs up, merge the branch to ``master``.

View Your Work
****************

You now have a web page that you, and your friends and family, can view.

#. In the repository, open the **Settings** tab.

#. Find the **GitHub Pages** section.

#. For the **Source**, select **master branch**.
   
#. Click **Save**.

The URL of your new website is now listed. Open it.  If you don't like something in your web page, edit the ``index.html`` file again.

.. include:: includes.txt
