Class 2b - CSS
########################


Goals
*********

* Gain a basic understanding of CSS.

* Be able to modify the look and style of your web page with CSS.


Readings
*********

* |CSS - Wikipedia|

* |CSS Intro - W3|

* |Chrome Inspector|
  
  .. note:: If you prefer to use another browser, there are equivalent tools.  

Videos
*******

.. include:: video_refs/css_intro.txt

.. include:: video_refs/chrome_inspector.txt


Assignment
************

|Assignment| 

Find a partner for this assignment.  You should work together, though you only need to complete these steps for one repository.

Follow the GitHub flow to complete this assignment. You can complete the assignment through the browser, or through GitHub Desktop and Atom (or another text editor).

.. note:: The goal of this exercise is to learn the mechanics of editing styles in a web page.  It is not a design contest.

#. Create a new branch in your **Get Started HMTL** repo.

#. In your new branch, edit the ``styles.css`` file.

   .. hint:: Use Chrome Inspector to experiment with changing styles.

#. For the ``nav`` element:

   * Apply a unique color.
   * Create a border around it.
   * Change the background color so it sticks out on the page.

#. For the ``article`` element:

   * Create a border around the ``article``.
   * Change the style of the ``header`` however you see fit.
   * Indent the ``p`` element.
   * Change the background color so it sticks out on the page.

#. For the ``aside`` element:

   * Move the ``aside`` element so that it appears next to ``article``, aligned on the right side.
   * Make the ``h2`` smaller than the ``h2`` for ``article``.
   * Change the style of the ``header`` however you see fit.
   * Indent the ``p`` element.
   * Change the background color so it sticks out on the page.

#. Make the footer smaller.
   
#. Continue editing the styles and refreshing the web page until you are satisfied.
   
.. include:: snippets/save_github.txt


Extra Credit
*************

|CSS - edX|

Recommended if you intend to do your final project in HTML.


.. include:: includes.txt
