Introduction
#############

Goals
*******

This course will help you become familiar with a wide variety of current tools
and technologies writers use to create, manage, and publish online content.

This course will not make anyone an expert in any tool. Rather, we aim to:

* Help you learn basic skills in a variety of tools.

* Provide context for tool choices.

* And most importantly, help you *learn how to learn* new tools.

  Undoubtedly, in five years, or next year, you will not be using the same tools that we use
  in this class. You will need to adapt to rapid change.  We will stress using
  all available sources, and hands-on use, to learn new tools.

At the end of the course, you should have:

* A broad understanding of multiple technologies.

* The ability to create basic content with different tools.

* The inclination to ask the right questions and find the answers when
  learning about a new technical subject.

A "Flip" Classroom
********************

Traditional classes involve a teacher talking and demonstrating during class
time, and students completing assignments outside of class.

This class *flips* that model. Students are expected to read and view all
material for the class, and to start on assignments, *before* coming to the
classroom. We will use class time to:

* Ask and answer questions.

* Do hands on work, individually and in teams.

* Share work in an open, supportive atmosphere.

Classroom time will be as hands-on as possible.

GitHub
********

We will use GitHub to share our work. 

Many of you will use GitHub or a similar system (such as BitBucket) in your future jobs, so this
is a good opportunity to learn more about it. To get started, create a GitHub
account.

:xref:`GitHub Join`

.. Then add your GitHub user name to the :xref:`GitHub Issues` discussion so the rest of the class can collaborate with you.

We will discuss GitHub in the 1st class. Do the reading and watch the videos in the :doc:`GitHub lesson <github>` before then.

Editors 
***********************

For markup languages, you can edit content in GitHub directly, without installing any software. 

You can also use Sublime or a variety of other editors to work with content on your computer.

Later in the semester we will install trial versions of Oxygen for XML editing.

.. caution:: Do not install these programs until we approach those classes;
  otherwise, your trial period might end before you can complete the
  assignments.

Expectations
*************

You must bring curiosity and enthusiasm for hands-on work.

You must do the reading and watch videos before class, so we can use class
time for discussion and hands-on learning. If you get stuck, search for
answers first, then ask on our class Slack channel.

I've selected what I think are good articles and videos for this class.  But
there are many more. You are encouraged to search on your own, and if you
learn a trick we haven't covered, share it.

You will need to spend around ~4 hours per week for this class.

Class participation on `Slack`_, between class meetings, is expected.

You are also expected to collaborate, in small teams and as a class. I will
comment on your work. You are encouraged to help each other and comment on
each other's work as well.

You should be familiar and comfortable with either a Mac or Windows, and web
browsing.

Class Discussions 
=========================

Active class participation, both in our weekly meetings and on Slack, is a must.

Slack 
=========================

We will use the :xref:`Class Slack Channel`  to discuss questions online. 

Sign up for the Slack channel before the first class.

Slack is a common individual and group chat tool; you very well may use it now
or in the future on the job.

You can use Slack in a browser, install the program on your computer, and add
the app to your phone.

Everyone is encouraged to ask questions, and comment on others' questions in Slack.

To get started, please go to :xref:`Class Slack Channel` and add a comment to introduce yourself.

.. note:: I also recommend that you join the :xref:`writethedocs.slack.com`.

Assignments 
=========================

This course is pass/fail. No grades are submitted (unless one is necessary for
tuition reimbursement).

There are short assignments for each technology we cover in class. These
assignments are intended to provide a taste of working with different
technologies. Please complete these assignments and tag me in GitHub.

You will also submit an assignment in Blackboard for more formal evaluation
for each of the 3 sections of the syllabus described on :doc:`home page
<index>`.

|Assignment|

I will comment extensively on your work and answer questions.

I also expect you to help your peers.  If you see a question in :xref:`Class Slack Channel`, don't wait for me. Try to offer good suggestions.

There is also a :ref:`Project` due at the end of the term. The project will
allow you to work more deeply with a chosen technology.

An Open Source Course
***********************

To align with industry trends, we will use several open source technologies in
this class.  Writers should be aware of these options. The days of buying
expensive software from large vendors, then being locked into that system, are
over.

In addition, we're not just learning about the open source world, we are
experiencing it.

How?

* Much of the content of this course comes from freely available sources, such
  as |WP|, YouTube, and SlideShare. My role is to assemble sources into a
  coherent story that meets our objectives.

* Content on |WP| and YouTube, two of our primary sources, is created by
  users, not owners. That is, these platforms derive their value from the
  aggregated efforts of the community, just as do the open source projects we
  will discuss.

* This syllabus is created, stored, and hosted using only open source tools.
  This didn't cost a penny, and just about any aspect of it can be modified.

* In fact, **this syllabus is open source**, with a Creative Commons license.
  You can, and are encouraged to, make it better and to share it, using the
  tools you will learn about.
